Okay. How's everybody doing?
>> Good. How are you?
>> I'm all right.
Carol, do you have a 10?
>> I don't know.
>> Okay.
>> All right.
So, let's get started. So, I'm going to
call to order the town of Andover Board
of Selectmen regular meeting for Monday,
February 9th, 2026 at 7:01 p.m. Our
first order of b business is the pledge
of allegiance.
I pledge allegiance to the flag of the
United States of America and to the
republic for which it stands, one nation
under God, indivisible, with liberty and
justice for all. Okay.
All right. We're going to start with
public speak. Um,
we'll start with Valerie Bruno.
>> Jeff.
>> Yeah, now you're now you're
>> Sorry, I had a weak connection. Um I was
just wondering um I'm would like to ask
the board to um make an addition to the
agenda um to under the new business um
to vote to change the protocol and
remove my name as a co- uh signer on the
general fund account.
>> Okay. Is that it? Okay. Is that it?
>> Um yes. I'd like that to be an addition
to see if you guys could vote uh during
additions and deletions to add that to I
figured we could discuss it if it gets
it added.
>> Okay.
>> All right. Can you put yourself on
>> Can you put yourself on mute?
>> Okay. Thank you, Diane Grer.
>> All set. Thank you.
>> Okay. Kathy Palazi.
>> Okay, Kimberly Person.
>> All set. Thank you.
>> Liz Lo catch.
>> Hi,
sorry, I was trying to find a way to put
my face on here. Um, but uh things are
locking up on me. Um, I just wanted to
mentioned that at our last board of
finance meeting, uh, we talked about the
problem about there being a conflict on
Wednesday night. um a meeting conflict.
Um I emailed
uh you Jeff and the board of finance as
well. Um Wednesday night was supposed to
be our joint meeting, the board of
selectman and the board of finance, but
there's also a board of ed meeting that
night. And so I just wanted
to know if there is a possibility of
moving that to a different night. Um if
that's something you could just chat
about. I don't know if it's too late,
but I think it's kind of important for
everyone that wants to to be able to
attend
both movies.
>> That's all.
>> Okay. Joanne Heert.
>> All set. Thank you.
>> Um Stephen King,
>> nothing at this time.
>> Uh Leanne Hutchinson.
>> Hi. I wanted to thank you and the new um
public works director for the timely
treatment and plowing of the roads.
Obviously, we had a major storm and a
couple of smaller storm events since
your last meeting. So, um from what I
can see, including being on a
particularly steep road, the roads were
nicely done.
>> Okay. Thank you. Um did I miss anyone?
Oh, test grass.
>> I'm all set, sir. Thank you. Okay. Did I
miss anyone else?
Okay. Um, additions and changes to the
agenda. Um,
uh, I have a couple.
Uh I would like to uh move 8K
to the start of the meeting
uh right after the uh administrator's
report
if it possible and then I would like to
add a an executive session to the end of
the meeting.
We'd call that one
15A.
Uh, and that would be to discuss, uh,
employee issue. Um, uh, I want to say it
a different way. Um, uh, want to discuss
the town administrator, uh, interviewing
process.
>> I'll second that.
>> Okay. Oh, well, before we do it, Jeff,
something I'd like to add to. Sorry.
>> Yeah. And and one last thing we do need
to I I want to address uh Valerie's
request. Well,
>> um
>> yeah, we can make that 9.
>> Yeah. Well, 9E
>> 9E
>> 9E. Uh check signers. We'll call it
discussion and action upon check signers
and um
check signers. And then
we need to add 9F
discussion and action upon um joint
meeting with the board of finance.
>> Okay, Jeff, what do you got?
>> You already took care of it.
Okay. Um so we have move 8K add 15A
executive session to discuss town
administrator interview process. Um add
9E uh discussions regarding uh checking
account signers and 9F discussion and
action on joint board of finance board
of selectment meeting.
>> I'll second that note.
>> Okay. All right. Sorry about that. Um,
before I go on, does anybody else have
anything? Carol, you good? Ann, you
good? Scott, anything else?
>> Good.
>> Okay. All right. So, um,
so we have a motion on the floor to move
8K add 15A executive session, 9E on
discussion on check signers, and 9F
discussion on the joint board of finance
and board of selectment meeting. Um, so
we're going to vote. Um, I'm going to go
around. So Ann Cr
>> I Okay. Carol Lee
>> I
>> Jeff
>> Murray.
>> Scott Person.
>> Jeff Magcguire I. So that was 50 Z
on a vote. Okay.
All right. Let's get to the top of this.
So, appointments um we have in our
packet in our
we have um on page four library board
directors reappointment request Kathleen
D. Roer's chairperson, Linda Fish, Lisa
Kurtz, Sharon Shashenko, Brandy
Silowski, uh Jeff Ballard as the first
al alternate, Doris Maldonado Mendes as
the second order alternate, and Amy
Ormaloski as a library director. Are we
okay with reappointing all those
members?
>> Okay. Um can we uh just sit there and
say uh it is a five nothing vote.
>> Okay. So library board reappointing 50.
Um we have uh
this is really not that we have to
approve it. ADC vet on Monday January
19th at 7 o'clock. Robera Dhy said she
would like to join the EDC in the
meeting in October. Robera was
unanimously voted on as a member. Elaine
Burkart swore her in. So uh Robera
Dherty is a member of the EDC committee
right now. So
uh andor sustainable committee for 2025.
So that is uh 5C. Um
the members are for the sustainable
committee are Elaine Bukart, Michael
Burke, Michelle Laurren, Michael Palazi,
and Kathy Palazi, chairman. Can we sit
there and say that that is confirmed by
a five nothing vote for those members?
>> Yes. Yes.
>> Okay. Five nothing vote on that. Um
the old Andover burial ground committee,
the reappointment of the members, the
members wishing to continue are Mark
Michael Kurdzo, Steven Fish, Maria
Tolman, Bob Post, Jim Harlo. Uh and does
anyone have any issue with those members
being appointed? And can we do that also
by a five nothing vote?
>> Yes.
>> Okay. 5-0.
Okay. So, that goes through all the
appointments. I did not see or know of
any resignations that we have and then
um
we have the town administrator's report.
Uh I know that speaking to uh Jim, he
was having some trouble with his new um
um his location where he's currently at.
So, I'll go through this and if you guys
have any questions, you can sit there
and and ask. Uh the town administrator's
position, uh we had uh second
interviews, uh they were just completed.
Uh we had a delay in one of the
candidates. Um we finished that up on uh
Friday. Um and then we're going to
discuss that in our executive session.
So, all right. uh the veteran grant
program. Uh there was a meeting with um
Jim, myself, um Scott, and uh Christine
Reandazo related to the PL the program.
There is uh the documentation for the
initial grant funding supplied to us by
um um
um Senator Raman was uh is is in process
and hopefully that gets done as quickly
as possible so that we can sit there and
make a payment on some of the uh
playground equipment.
Um
senior transportation grant this needs
to really go to the new project
committee. Um, and we need to discuss
and have this vetted as to how we sit
there and go about building this. So,
this is on hold for right now. Um,
the senior community center grant uh the
paperwork for the the funding on the
federal earmark is in process. So, that
one for 500,000. So, we're trying to get
the application out for the new
generator system to hook up all three
buildings, fire, town, senior community
center. So, that should be uh moving
forward and getting done. Um, Long Hill
Bridge. Um,
the bid openings took place um at the
town hall
uh on
Thursday. I texted all of the members
the
bid documents and I just want to make
sure that I have the right date.
Oh,
did I text? I texted you guys. Right
there it is. Yep. Uh so that was um
Tuesday of last week.
We had uh we had 11. 1, two, three,
four, five, six, seven, eight, nine. We
had 10 bids that came in uh for the
project. We had um
um nine bids. We had one rejected bid
because they were missing some seals. Uh
the bid was attended by Jim Balano, um
members of the engineering firm, and uh
myself and Kate Fuller. Um we had nine
sealed bids. All the bids were opened in
public. uh were reviewed by the
engineering team. The low bid uh was for
uh three thou uh 3,797,298.50
by a trademark contractor's LLC. Um it
was a very interesting process the way
it should be done. uh RFP was conducted
and all the bids were opened in public
and uh I filmed some of it to share with
some of the other boards so they can
actually see what it really should look
like. Uh animal control, we're having
some problems with uh animal control is
something we're going to deal with in
our budget. Um we had uh requested Nikko
told us effectively they were going to
terminate us at the end of this fiscal
year coming up. they they were not
terminating andor they were going to
terminate their services. They had a lot
of uh push back from their members. They
wanted them to keep those services. So
now there's an opportunity for us to
keep it. But being a non member of that
u unit um our rate would increase by 50%
for animal control. So I have Jim
looking at some other options. So, this
is something that we have to pay
attention to to make sure that we um
figure it out and don't try to let those
costs increase too much. And when I we
go 50%, it's a difference between 13 or
$15,000 and $22,000. So, still less
expensive than if we tried to do it
ourselves, but more expensive than we
want to pay. Uh Mnt Bank, we're working
on that. Uh that is something that we
were on the phone today with Mnt trying
to sit there and get all of our um uh
our access lined up for the new
treasurer. So we're working on that.
Hopefully we get all of that rectified
for tomorrow so that we have appropriate
access for everything. Um public works
uh obviously as Leanne mentioned did a
very good job plowing the roads. Um
it really is a problem for me that all
these storms hit on the weekends. You
know, it would be nice if they hit on a
Tuesday. Uh, but they're hitting on
weekends and it's causing us to have
some overtime issues that we'll have to
sit there and work through. But, uh,
they've done a very good job. They had
an issue with salt. They got their salt
deliveries. Eric has a full set of shed
of salt and he is sitting there working
on, uh, making sure that he has it
filled in case we get a couple more
storms uh, at the end of the season. Um
the town planner, we have we have a
meeting um
uh we have a a meeting to an offer to
participate with the planning and zoning
committee on the February 17th to review
the POCD and then there there's a public
hearing on that on March 17th. So it's
something everybody should take a look
at. Um the Percy Cook Trail, I I have to
talk to Jim about this one. Uh this
grant was approved. Um, I'm sure that
he's looking for us to um I have to get
with him on this. So, I'm just going to
hold off on the Percy Cook Trail
preliminary plan. Um, I got to
understand what he's asking for. We'll
come back to you next month. Um,
was there a real problem with the
transportation, Scott, Jeff? The
hydraulic on that?
>> No,
>> it was fixed. It was fixed.
>> I didn't hear anything. So, I wasn't
there this weekend. I didn't go.
>> All right. Carol, any news on that or
any update or you know anything about
that?
>> All right. We'll get with him on that.
And then obviously because of the
snowstorm and specifically because of
the large uh amount of snow, there were
a lot of mailboxes that
were uh knocked down and and I'll sit
there and and I will apologize to the
residents who who had that issue happen,
but it's a it's something that happens
within the process of plowing. If the
your mailbox is knocked down by the snow
that's that's um uh that the plow pushes
forward, uh that is on the resident to
repair the mailbox. If it's a mailbox
that is hit by the truck, then it is on
the town to uh repair that mailbox. I
know that Jim fielded a significant
number of of uh residents uh discussing
that issue with them, but um it's it's a
it's something that we can't uh the town
and the public works guys can't really
control as to the amount of snow that's
pushed off their plow and damages a
mailbox. We know it's it's difficult,
but there are protocols and precedents
as to what has to happen and when. So
again, if it's the snow that's shooting
out and it knocks over your mailbox,
that will fall on the resident's
responsibility. And if it is the plow
truck hitting your mailbox, then it
falls on the town's responsibility. So,
and we understand that we will have
issues related to people complaining
about that and we'll handle them as best
we possibly can. Uh that's the uh the
town administrator's report for Jim.
Anybody got any questions?
All right. Um
we're going to move to 8K. Um and uh
that is on our agenda is uh discussion
and possible action on schedule to
review the 2026 2027 departmental
budgets. Um on the call we have Lisa
Jablonsky, our town treasurer. U I have
to thank Lisa for all the work that
she's putting in to try to um
get us to a point where we're um we're
comfortable with where we're at within
the system. There's been a lot of the
transition was not um as smooth as we
would like. Um there's a lot of um
access that needed to be granted. We
still have some IT issues that we're
still trying to resolve. We have access
to Mnt Bank that we're trying to
resolve. Uh we have access to the stiff
account that we're we're trying to
resolve. So there are things that she's
working on and she's putting in extra
time to get familiar with what we're
doing. So I I want to personally thank
her because I've been um uh dealing with
her on all those issues to make sure
that we try to get those taken care of
as quickly as possible. Um, so, uh, one
of the things that Lisa's been working
on, and I'll let her discuss, is she's
been setting up a a, um, uh, a new
budget
spreadsheet so that everybody can sit
there and have the same data. Uh, she
and I are I'm also working with her to
try to make sure that we present the
same monthly data. And it's not in this
package because we are having access,
like I said, access issues. It will be
in next month's package. it will
actually be to the board of finance next
first. So the goal is to have the board
of finance at the end of the month see
the information for the prior month. So
at the end of the month the board of
finance would see the information from
January and then the board of selectman
would see the exact same information
that the board of finance sees at our
February meeting or our next month's
meeting so that we're all in uh
alignment with the right information and
how it lines up. So, that is hopefully
the goal and where we can get. And then
I'll let Lisa talk. And the reason I
moved her up is because uh I don't want
her to have to sit on the um on the
entire meeting. I mean, she has to sit
on the board of finance meeting and
she's gracious enough to come and talk
with us, but I when she does come and
talk, I will plan on moving her up to
the front of the line so that she can go
and have dinner with her husband and do
what she needs.
>> Potatoes are in the oven right now.
And and I'll give you a little bit of
feedback on on Lisa. She u she plays
wreck basketball at Windham. So, you
know, we we we might have to Carol, you
might have to start the women's
basketball back up. So, just letting you
know that.
>> Okay. I mean, see me in plain sight. My
coach says, she said, "Put your hands
up." She pointed to the feet all the way
up to the top and she goes, "You've been
given a gift." she says. So, um, as, uh,
Jeff said, the, uh, different budget
than you're used to. Um, I'm used to
that format. I think it gives you a lot
of information right there on one page.
Um, I think I sent it to all to all of
you last Thursday. Um, I don't know if
you have any questions. It is a draft
and I'm still getting information daily
like we got the the amount for the state
police for the resident trooper. We got
that. So, we can add that in there. Um,
so I'm adding amounts um daily that are
more updated than what is in there. Um,
does anybody have any questions on the
budget
that that I sent last week so far?
No. Um, as Jeff said, we've been having
access problems and we're working to try
and get to that. It took quite some time
today to try and get through to the bank
and um we did get somewhere but we're
not done yet and these things take hours
honestly um to get to um it's been hard
to access QuickBooks. Um we're getting
there. We've got half of that. Um
the previous treasure has not really
been available um to help with any of
this. So it's been kind of like digging
through it just to get to the bottom of
it. And I'm just trying to organize um
what is there um so that I can better
present it to you.
>> Okay.
Anybody have any questions for the
treasurer or you want to go through any
of the information that is presented in
here from pages 22 down to 40?
So, this is a better presentation of the
information that is in QuickBooks
currently. Um, it's not the right
periods. It's it was I believe this was
done by the assistant and provided to um
>> Kate
>> Kate before she left.
>> Yeah.
>> All right.
So, um
you know, we're also going to sit there
and leave uh we're going to discuss the
budget. Um, we don't need Lisa here. Um,
unless and somebody Well, we do. Uh,
we'll actually leave you here. So, the
budget and and you know, as we go
through this, um, we as a group need to
sit there and determine if there are any
departments that we want to sit there
and and focus on and how we want to move
forward with those departments. Uh, the
one department that we really do have to
discuss uh, is going to be the senior
center and the community center. We need
to understand what our plan is related
to that budget line item and what you
know funding we want to sit there and
make available for um the community
center uh whether we want to sit there
and add staff whether we want to add
software and uh how we want to sit there
and go about that. So,
we all have to prepare for that one
because that is one of the departments
that is still new and still growing and
we have to figure out how we want to
position it for the rest of the town um
as we go forward. Um
are there any issues that that we should
ask Lisa to sit there and do work for us
on so that we're we're prepared to sit
there and come and deal with the board
of finance as to what we want to sit
there and move forward with?
I know we can't forget to uh fund the
Percy Cook Trail Engineering. We didn't
fund it last year. We have to fund it
this year. And I thought Eric said it
was like $48,000.
>> Um
>> I really I mean Scott, that one when
that one's on this this thing I that
grant was approved at town meeting
>> the engineering wasn't the the money for
the engineering.
Okay.
>> As I remember, but you know, I could be
wrong.
All right. We'll have to sit there and
look at that one. All right. Um,
are there any other
>> Go ahead.
>> I did not really look closely at that
what Lisa sent us last week because I
didn't think those numbers were in there
yet or they I mean, I didn't know how
much of that was really going to be in
the budget for next year. So, I just
looked at the layout and nothing else.
Those are are numbers that will be used
or what?
>> Well, you know, you start from the prior
year and then you add when you know you
have additions or deletions.
>> Yeah.
>> So, we're really starting from our prior
year and then we're going to go through
with what we need to do. I mean, we all
need to sit there and I mean, listen,
our biggest issues are capital and
making sure that we understand how we
want to sit there and allocate the
capital that town has available for its
various projects. Um, so that will be
important and and listen, we've we've
done a pretty good job of saving money.
Most of what we've done from capital is
not a one-time
transaction really. We've been saving to
do larger projects. Um,
and those are the things that we have to
determine how much money we're looking
to save and and and where we're looking
at going. Um,
you know, but
>> we all as members need to look at that
and Lisa will will fill it in as she has
it and then as things adjust, she will
adjust it. Now, it's more of a working
document for the board of finance
>> than it truly is for us. we just have to
sit there and go this is our direction
that we want to go in and this is what
we're going to recommend that the board
of finance look at it. Um,
>> okay.
>> You know, the question ends up being for
us is are we going to um,
you know, what is the increase, if any,
that we're going to sit there and put
forward to the board of finance? And
that really has I will
>> I will sit there and tell you I you know
the board of finance last year had
>> um didn't have an enviable task but what
they did is they cut the board they cut
the town services and my hope is that we
can sit there and and manage to uh
provide some increases in specific areas
and if we can find ways to sit there and
reduce the overall budget by cutting in
other areas we should try to do that but
it's a working document for the board of
finance and it's more of a the board of
selectman wants to sit there and move in
this direction and this is the
recommendation from the board who who
sets the priorities.
>> And just so you know the all columns are
up to date and are the actual columns
except for that last budget column. So
the 23 24 25 those are actual figures
that will stay.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. And even this year and last year's
budget and then to date, those are all
those are all up to date. It's only that
final column that's not completely
filled in.
>> It looks like it's been, you know,
erased and added to and that kind of
thing. So, I didn't know how that
worked. At least in my copy of it, it
looks like that.
>> Oh, I don't like Yeah, my cop is not
like that. There's no adding or
>> Did you Did you Did you send a PDF or
you sent a PDF?
>> I sent a PDF. Yeah,
>> it's a PDF. Yeah.
>> So, it's just printing.
>> Yeah. Added.
>> Yeah.
>> No, that's
>> okay. Well, I'll go back and look at it
some more.
>> Are Yeah, there's nothing erased or
anything. It's shaded. It's
>> shaded. That's what it was because it's
>> It looks different. That's what it was.
I'll try to
>> see if I can print this.
Okay.
>> I can't read it on the phone.
>> All right. Does anyone else have any
questions for for Lisa before we let her
go have dinner?
>> Okay, Lisa. If no one else has any
questions, thank you very much for
participating and uh thank you for
putting in the extra time to get uh
organized.
>> Thank you, Lisa. I pro
>> You're welcome. And I promise it will
get better. It's um like Jeff said,
we're just trying to get our hands
around it and um without the previous
person here um we'll get there. We'll
definitely get there.
>> Okay. All right. Thank you very much.
>> Yeah.
>> All right. We're going to move on to uh
item eight. So, um discuss and act upon
8A, review the status of the veteran
field improvement. Um,
uh, we it was discussed in the the
town administrator's report. Uh,
we're moving forward to sit there and
make those adjustments. Christine
Rendazzo, honestly, has been, you know,
we're really lucky to have her engaged
in this. She really cares. Um,
she's done a very good job along with
Scott to sit there and move that program
along. Uh, it's a question now of just
making sure. So the funding
the funding mechanism the steep grant is
in place and that has multiple years.
The the money that we were awarded
related to the recreational project from
uh Senator Ramen is is
we need to just make sure that we're on
top of that and Jim has been on top of
that. So that should be all good to go.
The garage uh 8B review the senior
transportation garage status that was
also in the packet. That's something
that Jeff Murray and I uh met with the
uh engineering team from
uh Jeff refresh me refresh the state
program.
>> Millennium.
>> No, not Millennium. Um
uh it escapes me. It's a state program
that Eric sat there. It's a
>> Yeah, that one.
>> So, we talked to them. We we have to
make some adjustments to that uh that
whole project, sit there and make it
more beneficial for the town. And we're
probably going to have to sit there and
go to um
a town meeting on that one to sit there
and make sure that it gets done
properly. Um but we'll sit there and get
to it. Long ill project, the bids went
out. You know, that one the status of
the Percy Cook Trail preliminary plan.
Uh we have to get back on that one and
understand um where we're at. So Scott,
you know, if you and I can sit there and
do that, that would be great.
Status of the animals control 8E, we
talked about that. That is something
that we're going to have to decide for
this budget purposes. We're going to put
in the money for Crag and sit there and
see where that pushes us, but that's
going to be an increase on that lineup.
So, we're going to try to not do that.
Um 8F, status of the corrective action
plan for the audit ending June 30th,
2024. That has been submitted. Um, I
have a call with the auditor tomorrow,
so I'll make sure that everything is
good on that as well, but I think that
can come off for next month. I think
we're good. Uh, 8G discussion and
possible action on the AAS RFP for the
bathroom renovation. Uh, I know that
this is uh on the agenda for the school
board tomorrow. Um,
I'm just saying it and this is me saying
it out loud in public. If this does not
go to RFP, I'm going to I'm not going to
sit there and be supportive of this and
I'm going to um make sure that it's done
in the best interests of the town and
the community. So,
>> correction, Jeeoff, Wednesday.
>> Wednesday. Sorry, my bad. Wednesday.
But it needs to go to an appropriate
RFP, not the I'm going to bring in two
vendors from um a
convention for the board of ed members
and I'm going to have them give me
numbers. That that's not acceptable from
my end. So, and I'm one vote, so that's
all I'm going to be. Anyway, anybody
else have anything else they want to add
to the ASRFP?
No, I'm just frustrated. I'm very
frustrated with the whole progress of
the project.
>> Okay. Um discussion and 8H discussion
and possible action on the Hop River
Home contract. Um
uh Kate is actually on vacation. Um we
do have in our packet on page
Oh.
Um,
we really have meaning minutes. Um, we
need to review that. Uh, I want to sit
there and review that with Kate. Um, and
get an understanding of what it's going
to do to Kate and and number-wise, but
it is something that we're going to have
to decide if we renew or not. Um anyway,
um
I don't think it's imperative that we do
it right now, but it is imperative that
we sit there and uh give them an answer.
So, I actually think it's it's
I got to look at the the agreement. Uh I
know we did a three-year number.
Um I got to sit there and see exactly
when it was put in place. And I know we
have a document someplace that was
signed between the town and um
the management group on the
um
on the Hop River Homes. So I'll have to
find that bring that to the next meeting
and we can sit there and discuss that
more at our next meeting.
Um 8 I I'm a little disappointed in this
one. Uh the uh I know we probably had
between seven and 10. And Jeff, do you
know the number of people that applied
for this? I know there were there were
more than
>> I thought there was at least six, but I
haven't seen any letters of interest or
anything. I was hoping it would make the
packet.
>> I was hoping it would make the packet
and I did not look at the packet until
uh early this morning, so it was not
there. And Kate, I believe, got some of
them. And we're going to have to sit
there and see what Robera got. what I'll
do and I will send out a text tomorrow
with the names and what we're who has
come on and and honestly on this this
project review committee all the
applicants can be there uh anyone that
wants to be on that committee that has
any kind of uh construction or
engineering or any kind of trade related
um you know experience and they can add
value to this will help the town uh run
these projects in the most efficient
manner. and in the best interest of the
town. So, anybody who wants to
participate, don't think that there's a
deadline on applicants. Um, at any point
in time, someone can sit there and be
added to this committee. Um, but we'll
get I'll get you the names. I'll get
them out to you tomorrow.
>> Yeah. Hey, Jeeoff, can you scan Can we
get those scanned in and sent to us
because um if we're missing some skill
sets like electric, electric electrical,
mechanical, civil, I'd like to try to
recruit some more people in those
certain areas that we're going to be a
little light in.
>> Yep. I'm all for that. I will sit there
and get that done tomorrow if
the only hesitation I have, Jeff, is
that they're on Kate's emails.
>> Okay.
>> I don't know. I mean, I know Kate I know
Kate put it on her email in the ad. So,
um, it might have to wait until she gets
back from vacation.
>> Yeah. Well, we're not going to we're not
going to be able to appoint anybody, it
sounds like, till next meeting anyway.
>> Mhm.
>> So, I but I I would like to have another
30 days to make sure that we fill that
board with a good mix of people.
>> Yep. No problem. I'll make sure that
gets done. Um,
8J, uh, discussion and possible action
on the establishment of a town job
description review committee. Uh, I want
to push this to the next meeting. And
the reason why is because if we do
appoint a new town administrator, I want
them on this committee running this
committee to make sure that they
understand what all the employees do
within the the town and to manage the um
uh the creation or the updating of the
job descriptions that are currently in
hand because there is a folder that
Heric has and Jim uh I reviewed with
that has all job descriptions for a lot
of the town positions and I'll also make
sure that those all go out to all the
members of the board so everybody can
sit there and see what the current job
descriptions are out there and then uh
hopefully this committee can be
established to assist the new a new town
administrator when we can sit there and
get um someone appointed.
So anybody have a problem with that?
Okay. Uh 8K we did that previously. Um
so uh we're going to move on to item
nine, new business. Um discuss act upon
the following. 9A, discuss and possible
action on professional assistance to the
assessor's office. Um
I spoke to the assessor today. So I'll
tell you what we've done in the last
couple weeks. Um,
uh, Scott Person went and communicated
to the Bolton assessor and and asked the
Bolton assessor if she might be able to
assist in the issues related to the
assessor's office. Um,
the Scott um, I went and communicated
directly with QDS. Uh QDS is the
company that provides the software for
the assessor's office and the tax
collector's office. Um
I sent to you earlier right before the
meeting a proposal from the from QDS. Um
that proposal
so Scott had gotten a proposal from the
assessor in Bolton at a $75 an hour
rate. That rate subsequently increased
to $110 an hour for the bolt assessor.
Um the
agreement with QDS started higher, but
it ended up at $100 an hour. QDS um had
obviously understands all of the
software issues and um
I spoke to John today and what John
would like is John would rather have and
believes that QDS will be able to sit
there and input the necessary
uh personal property tax returns. We
have about 325 personal property tax
returns that need to get input into the
QDS software system so that we can
properly bill the personal property
taxes and it needs to get done by the
end of the month. Um we also need to
update the um
the motor vehicle taxes.
Um, and that gets done by a file that is
that is
downloaded from the uh department of
motor vehicle and there seems as of
today to be a problem with that.
Doesn't appear that we that the
assessor's office downloaded that file
and that file has been removed from the
department of motor vehicle site. So,
um,
John is working to sit there and get a
new file created, and once that's done,
QDS can actually sit there and do that
from their offices in Waterberry. Um,
John is going to work on all of the real
estate uh um adjustments that need to be
made and hopefully we can get this whole
thing wrapped up by the end of the
month. So,
uh, what I would like to do is make a
motion that we, um,
>> can I just say something? I know that
you said that the Bolton assessor is 110
an hour, but QDS is 100 an hour plus
$100 a day for travel. How many hours
are they going to be working in the
assessor's office? Because if they're
not working 10 hours a day, they're more
than 110 an hour. And if we had
>> I'm sure I'm sure it will end up being
eight hours because, you know, the town
hall is not open. So,
>> right, we're open seven and 10.
>> The issue the issue, Carol, ends up
being that
um I want John to use all of the
resources available to do this as
quickly as possible.
He wants to sit there and uh
he wants to and listen, I would sit
there. I sat there and said they could
do all this from their facility in
Waterberry. I would sit there and and
if it was me, Carol, I would move all
the personal property tax returns down
there to Waterberry and let them do it
and do it as quickly as possible so
there's no excuses as to what we're
dealing with here. So, if it's the
question of, and this is the other part
about it, I don't know the assessor and
what her skill level is with the
software, right? That's not what Scott
and I were asking for. Scott and I were
trying to reduce the crazy fee that was
being bandied about for the other
individuals that were being uh initially
proposed to us. Right.
>> Okay. So, so
Scott's Scott doing his job went and
tried to find somebody that would give
us a better rate and I sat there and I
went to the software company because I
have some relationships with some of the
management people there and
those are the I mean the first proposal
honestly from QDS was was higher and
honestly they were higher because uh I
would sit there and say
they're higher I don't even want to get
into it. So I requested that they reduce
it and they reduced it by $25 an hour. I
mean we can avoid all the travel if
we'll allow the personal property taxes
to go to their office in Waterberry.
>> Okay. And the only thing that is 125 an
hour is the limited real estate
assistance on the vision appraisal
software
>> which is 125 an hour but it's $100 every
day. Well, if they travel up here. So,
here was here was the thing.
QDS provides
um
training and part of this was going to
be that they were going to train the new
staff person,
>> right? I saw that. But there it's
limited training.
>> Well, at least it looks limited. two
days on the QDS products onsite
and then data entry one day for the
vision.
>> Well, no, the they don't even know what
they're walking into, honestly, the QDS
people because they didn't they they
knew that they had to do some data input
on the um uh motor vehicle side and they
their focus was on anything that dealt
with their software, what touched their
software. So what touches their software
is the the department of motor vehicle
and the motor vehicle um uh input and
the personal property input. the the way
that I understand that the uh real
estate works is the real estate
information needs to go into vision and
then vision information gets dumped into
uh QDS and the tax return the tax bills
are prepared and then the information
gets into the tax collector's software
so that it can be collected. Um
what they were saying is they're not
experts in vision so they don't want to
really do the vision work. That's the
work that John should be doing between
now and the end of the month so that the
grand list can go out and all of the
other work the the work that relates
directly in the direct input into QDS is
the QDS staff people can do it because
they're they're trained on those
softwares. So the question is and and I
asked this question Carol because quite
honestly I sat there and when I was
talking to John I'm like John why can't
we just take the personal property taxes
to them and his concern was if they
leave the office and something happens
to them then it's another problem.
I'm not the assessor. I'm only trying to
sit there and manage this to the correct
solution.
>> Okay. And I have another question. Could
you now you said the motor vehicle
something happened and the motor vehicle
uh from DMV was deleted from our system.
Is that what you're saying?
>> Not from our system. We did not download
it initially
and then it you when John was going in
to download it, it was now gone from the
DMV site. So, he's been working with DMV
to get the file recreated.
>> So, because we were late in going in to
download that DMV file,
we no longer can go in and download it
in a nice and easy way is what? It just
it just um
I'm not sure how the system works,
Carol, but what I would envision is they
send you an email, you have access into
the into their site, you can download
the file. If you don't go in and
download it, you know, it should stay
there. Like DMV should not be removing
our listing of of of vehicles, you know,
>> so
>> they're all there. They have to re they
have to recreate what I'm being told is
they have to recreate the file so that
we can download a new file the same
information and go do the work. It's a
question now of does he get it done
timely
but John is working on that.
>> And are we the only town that this
happened to?
>> I have no idea.
>> Okay. Thank you.
>> Yeah. I mean, I asked him if it happened
to Colchester and he said no. But then
again, I think he downloaded the
information from Colchester as soon as
he got the email.
>> Okay,
>> that's that would be that was my take.
That's how I took it. So, the question
is John wants to use QDS,
right? Out of the options, John wants to
use QDS. Yes, there's an extra um couple
dollars an hour related to the travel
costs if they come here. We can avoid
that if we're willing to sit there and
send the personal tax. It's one box
personal property tax returns. We want
to send them down to Waterberry. Uh
they'll do it on their site and bill us
accordingly.
>> But if we use the Bolton assessor,
they will come to our town hall.
>> She will come to our town hall. And
again, I discussed that with him and
that's something that the the
that is not an that is not what he wants
to see happen.
>> I'm just telling you,
>> okay, but I'm just saying we have a an
assessor
>> a neighboring town will save money. Um,
and not only that, we contract with
Bolton, other towns for a lot of, you
know, well, for our building department
services.
Um,
I just
>> I just want I just want
>> that would be the most cost effective.
>> I I I do understand what you're saying
and yes, it would save us a couple
bucks. the people from QDS, you know,
have the experience in the input into
the software. And I think in this
situation, we are now at the 9th of
February. We have until the 26th to get
a grand list done. It's not like this is
going to be a five day or 10day project.
It's not going to be that. So,
I just want to get this done as quickly
as possible. And listen, I don't care if
we approve both proposals. I don't I
mean I actually told John I wanted him
to use every resource he could to get it
done as quickly as he could. He's
sitting there saying that it'll be
easier for him to manage this if QDS
does it
and you can take in and we can talk
about this later but that's you
understand what what I'm saying to you.
I hope
>> it's QDS they would be would they be
training the new person also
>> the assistant assessor. So
I I found out that QDS offers free
training
>> um if we send them down to their
Waterberry facility for training.
>> And also John has um
the individual for the new new the new
assistant is not going to start until
March 3rd.
>> You know, part of that is because of the
timing of of him, but I I know what John
did. I know he sat there and said, "I I
don't have time to train with the
limited hours that he has to sit there
and and and he actually told me today
he's not going to be we have to sit
there and talk about training when the
individual comes on. We're going to have
another issue that we have to address."
So,
but QDS does the training for free if we
send them down to Waterberry, which we
would be doing as soon as they get
enough information under their belt as
to the appropriate questions.
>> Well, why are we waiting? Why can't we
send the new assistant treasurer down to
assistant assessor down to QDS?
>> Because she's not starting to the 3rd of
March.
>> Well, that's only because John wants
that that way. Why don't you know we
don't want it that way?
So, wait a minute. We approved hiring
John's choice and he doesn't want her to
start until March 3rd. Is that what you
just said, Scott?
>> I I I don't know if it's totally on him
or if it's on the applicant's timing to
get out of the current job.
I mean, it's a month, Carol, so I'm with
you. It's a month. It's a long time.
in the in in the interim, why why
couldn't she, you know, start in two
weeks, let's say, and go get some
training from QDS and Waterberry?
>> Um,
she could start whenever, as far as I'm
concerned. So, if we want to sit there
and press back on him and tell him to
get her to start as early as possible
and send her down to QDS, I'm all for
it. He and Listen, he needs to be on. He
needs We need to sit there and have a
meeting with him, the five of us.
>> Um, so you can all hear it.
>> There's no online option either for
training
>> for for training for QDS. Uh,
>> I'll ask that question.
>> I mean, this day and age, I mean, every
almost everything I've been taking has
been online.
>> Yeah. So, I'll ask that question.
But I mean, John didn't even tell us QDS
did it for free.
>> And when did we find out that the motor
vehicle grand list information was
deleted? Today.
>> I found out today. Yes.
>> And when was it originally sent out from
DMV?
>> That' be a better question to ask, John.
>> Sounds like it wasn't sent out. It
sounds like you have to download it.
Well, you have to download it, but it's
up there for downloading purposes,
>> right? Yeah.
>> So, there was a delay.
>> We never downloaded it. So, why didn't
we download it?
>> Yeah. Why didn't John downloaded this if
he did it in Colchester and he knew
somebody wasn't there to download it?
>> Right. Right.
>> Why didn't he just download it and just
have it there? It just that makes no
sense to me at all.
>> Again, we need to we need to uh uh we
need to as a group have a meeting with
him.
Yeah, I would like that because I would
like to then answer why he didn't I mean
if it was available in Colchester I mean
common sense would tell you if you're
the assessor say hey while I'm here I
might as well download this and get it
in the database
>> right
>> we should talk about this
>> we need to have a meeting and we need to
talk
>> in our executive session
>> well not in our executive session but we
will sit there and have another meeting
and I will get it scheduled
>> we can't discuss it in executive session
Scott because we didn't notify John that
we would be discussing it. So, we need
>> So, we're not we're not going to. So,
let's let's just keep moving on. Does
anybody else have anything related to
the uh um I'm going to make a motion
that we at least approve the QDS
proposal?
>> Second. I'll make a motion. Can we just
can we just amend it to just to just a
blanket per hour not to exceed with an
NTE number not to exceed ours and then
just wherever we go with we go with
>> um if I knew exactly Jeff everything
that was involved in this I would tell
you that I don't know what's involved.
>> Can we
>> wait another month? We we're not going
to wait a month, but can we set up a
meeting with the assessor
to to talk with him and see
and then like Jeff says just do a not to
exceed amount because how much work
>> we can already do the one we can already
do the not to exceed amount by Jeff told
us it's 110.
>> Yeah. No. Well, you know,
>> but total amount, Scott, not $110 an
hour, and it's more than that with the
travel amount with the people coming
from QD.
>> Even if you sat there, even if you sat
there, it's $112 an hour. If you sat
there and worked eight hours and you
broke the $100 out over an eight hour
timeline, I you know, be really honest.
They're driving from Waterberry, it's
it's 70 miles out, 70 miles back,
whatever. I'm not really concerned about
the $100. uh for travel. You know, it's
a question of
we
we've been this is a bad situation. It
wasn't resolved early enough. It needs
to get resolved. We got like 14 days to
sit there and get the
>> 896
5day week. How many weeks did he say
it's going to be?
>> It's only 350 property tax returns to
input. I am telling you, I cannot
believe. I'll I'll tell you what, I'll
even call QDS and say if you got to
input 350
returns, how long it would take. But
>> well, we need to make a motion tonight.
>> They're not they're not in the business
of this is a group that's getting money
from us each year. You know, they're not
here to screw us on the hours that they
use to put in our in that information,
but we just need to sit there and get
this done. So,
>> um,
>> finalize something.
>> Um, we can circle back to this one if I
can get an an answer. Um, um,
input 350
personal property tax returns.
Okay,
I I sent I sent a request off for
information on that. We're going to come
back to this one. So, let's let's move
on to um
8C. Oh, no. Um
9B.
>> Yeah. discussion and possible action to
schedule the town budget meeting on
Thursday, April 9th. This this goes into
the whole issue of us scheduling
meetings that overlap with the board of
education or the board of finance. We
need to stop it. So, this is a request
to move what we currently have on the
calendar as a Wednesday, April 9th
meeting for the the town budget meeting
to Thursday, April 9th. So, I'll make a
motion that we move the town budget
meeting from Wednesday, April 8th to
Thursday, April 9th.
and creme seconded.
All right, further discussion.
All right, we're going to go around the
horn on this one for vote and creme.
>> Hi.
>> Carol Lee,
>> hi.
>> Jeff Murray,
>> Scott Person.
Scott Person, yes. Jeff Aguire, yes.
Five, nothing.
>> Okay. Uh item 9 C discussion and
possible action on Hoppin Hodgeges. It's
a road race that uses the trail. Uh it's
in our packet.
Um
did I delete did I close that? I should
have closed that.
Where is that in our packet?
age 16.
>> I think
>> 16 to 17, right?
>> Yeah.
>> Uh they're going to rent a porta potty
bottled water fundraiser hopping hopping
Hodgeges. Jeff, what information or what
do you know about this group?
>> He's done it he's been using that
location now I think five or six years
and he's always given us a donation
afterwards.
>> Yeah.
Um, the only thing I'd be concerned
about and that we may need to help him
on is we have a large amount of snow on
the rail trail and I don't know if it's
going to melt by the time that race is
going to happen.
>> April 5th. Come on, man.
>> Yeah.
>> But that's that whole area is that whole
area where that hill is where the Percy
Cook Trail is slated to go in is is
always shaded and it's that's the last
place to melt and it ices a lot. So, we
may have to if if worst worst comes to
worse, we may have to engage public
works to run a plow down the rail trail
and just to clean it off for them.
>> It's going to be 40 degrees next Monday.
>> We still have a lot of snow.
>> We do. We do.
>> We got so much snow. I got my snow my
snowmobile keeps getting stuck.
>> There you go.
>> It's too much for a snowmobile.
>> Okay. Um
Well, we can sit there and deal with
that after. I mean,
>> I'm just saying that might be a that may
be a possibility.
>> Okay. He's saying
>> the winner we're having
>> this is year 17 of him using the trail
and doing this. So,
>> well, it's year 17 of the race. He used
to be in Vernon, but they moved it to
Andover.
>> Okay.
>> So, he's been doing about four about
four years. He's the one that gave us
the money for the picnic table down
there. And so, he's always he's always
written us a check for I think
approximately $500 to $700 every year.
>> Okay. And I have no problem using that
for the rec commission or you know for
community center whatever.
>> Okay. So then I'll sit there and I'll
make a motion to authorize or to approve
the event permit for the Hoppen Hodgeges
5K to be run on April
9th. I believe that was April 5th.
>> Yeah, April 5th. Sorry.
>> Second.
>> All right. Carol Lee seconded that
motion. Further discussion.
All right. Ann
is a yes. Carol Lee.
>> Hi.
>> Scott Person. Oh, sorry. Jeff Murray.
Sorry. Alphabetical. Sorry. Murray. Yes.
Scott Person. Yes. Jeff Magcguire. Yes.
Okay. Five nothing on that.
Okay. Um 9D discussion and possible
action on a firewood proposal. Jeff,
>> yep. I spoke I actually spoke to the
Marorrow um town manager and he stated
that Yep. the public public works or any
contractor that's doing work in the town
of Marorrow. They have an area over by
Bush Park. They they drop it in this
parking area and people residents go and
cut it up. And he says it's been a
significant cost savings uh for grinding
and their uh for their drum. Yeah, I
guess they do drum grinding of all their
firewood and everything that the public
works goes and cuts.
Um he says it hasn't been a problem. He
said people seem to be taking it and I
said it's a cost savings. Um I I spoke
to him about possibly putting it at the
transfer station and he actually thought
that was a good idea because if public
works we have those if if if you've been
down by the brush pile there's two
concrete um I guess you call them
bunkers where we used to keep
recyclables and other things that are
pretty much unused at this point. And if
we clean them out with the loader and
public works when they cut a tree that
falls down or do any tree clearing, just
go down with a dump and just dump it
into that bin. And then during transfer
station hours, we let people come in,
take what they want, and and they can go
Wednesdays or Saturdays and grab as much
wood as they would like to as long as
they have a dump sticker and they're a
resident.
Um, I think it's a cost savings. I think
it would be a benefit for the community.
people that burn firewood
be um would help some of our residents
out. And um like I said, I when I was
talking to him, I he said that
transportation would be a great idea
because pray people go and get rid of
their garbage and then they just go down
and pick up a load of firewood on their
way through and bring it home. So I'd
like to try it and see if see if we can
uh see if we can make it work because we
have a lot of firewood that goes in that
brush pile that we're paying to chip up
every year. And if we can have people
take it and burn it and use it for heat,
I think it's a win-win for everybody.
Um, did you did you have a chance to
discuss that with Eric
just uh the public works our guys just
to sit there?
>> No, I didn't. I I haven't. I he just
called me today. He got back to me today
finally.
>> All right.
>> So, we had that discussion. I would if
we made a motion on this, I would make
it pending approval by public works.
>> Okay. Then
just make a let's make a motion.
I'd like to make uh motion that we
create a uh firewood
uh exchange area at the transfer station
and one of the concrete bins down by the
brush pile um pending public works
approval.
>> Second.
>> Carol Lee seconded. All right. Any
further discussion on this?
>> We going to allow residents to use a
chainsaw down on the town's property
>> if they if they need to. Yeah. I mean,
most of the stuff that the town cuts up
is in, you know, they usually cut up
into small pieces or it's log length. I
mean, the bar lets the guys cut it up
with a chainsaw. And there's a state
statute already in Connecticut that
there's no liability for for proper
municipalities.
>> Yep. Yep. For um harvesting firewood.
That's why we leave it on the side.
Usually they leave it on the side of the
road, but if there's an area, we get it
with the excavator, throw it in the dump
truck, and the guys just go down and
dump it in the bin. And then if there's
anything like uh you know split sections
or something they don't get they could
just go in with the loader out of
periodic basics and just scoop it up and
then throw it in the brush pile.
The remnants that we have and even if
town residents cut a tree down and they
want to get rid of the wood, they can go
down there and dump it.
We recycle it.
>> That would be a good idea, too. Yeah.
>> Yeah. So instead of I mean I go down to
that brush pile all the time and I see
good oak and and hickory and all kinds
of stuff thrown into that pile. So,
>> I don't think putting it in that bin,
the concrete bin is a good idea because
you don't want to run to change the uh
CH in
>> we can work with public area works and
>> on the side there someplace there's
plenty of room area.
>> It's a good idea because they were get
used to be getting rid of all that. The
public works used to take it places and
give it to people. I think that the town
people should be able to have first dibs
on it.
>> Yeah. And like I said, if there's extra
stuff that's left over at the end, we
just take the loader and we push it in
the pile when we do the grinding.
>> Yeah. Chip it up.
>> Yep.
>> Big ugly pieces.
>> Okay. Um, so any further discussion on
the issue?
>> All right, we'll vote on it. Any
>> I Carol
>> I.
>> Jeff Murray.
>> Scott Person.
Jeff Magcguire. I Scott Persona's eye.
So that's 5 nothing as well.
>> And I will get together with Eric this
week or early next week and discuss it
with him.
>> Okay. Um
we have uh 9E uh discussion and possible
action on uh checking account signers.
Um
Valerie, what's your reasoning for
requesting not to be a signer?
You're on mute.
>> Yeah,
>> sorry. Um, I've been uncomfortable for a
couple of months with the fact that, um,
there is a protocol that's in effect
now. Um for people who don't know that
um probably when the town administrator
began the protocol was put into place to
have the general fund checks on the town
side signed by the two non-elected uh
people which was the superintendent and
the town administrator. And then
likewise they changed the protocol on
the school side so that our general fund
checks were also signed by the town
administrator and by the superintendent.
Um, so I'm guessing that was 2017, maybe
2016. Um, but in the last four months or
so, um, it's the protocol just really
has not been followed. Um, and that
makes me a bit uncomfortable at the end
of the year swearing to the fact that,
um, to the auditor that this is in fact
the protocol that we follow. So um, you
know, it's not being followed with
Fidelity. And so I'd like us just to um,
have the town take care of their checks
and we'll take care of our checks. Um,
and I need your your change to that
protocol.
>> Um, um,
>> so you're you're you need to put you
need to put yourself on mute.
>> Well, I'm talking.
>> I'm talking
for me. Thank you. Okay. So, you're
asking because
because and just for everybody's
understanding, uh, I'm a signer on the
account. Caitlyn's assigner on the
account, the town administrator's
assigning on the account, and the and
the superintendent is a signer on the
account. So, Valerie, I'm just trying to
understand you with fidelity, you're
sitting there saying that because you
because if if need be, I have to sign,
uh, that's not acceptable to you.
part. It's the protocol that's been
established for a number of years is
that the town administrator and the
superintendent sign one another's checks
and in our absence
on the school side, we would have the
board chair andor the vice chair sign on
behalf of me. And on the town side, in
the absence of the town administrator,
it would be the first selectman or the
second selectman. Yes. But the protocol
that's been in place was put in place
and the auditor thought this was a
really good uh series of checks and
balances which it it is. Um, but if it's
not going to be with Fidelity, um, where
it's just willy-nilly on either side,
um, if if it wasillilly,
>> um, it's part of the protocol, for
example, is that the checks, uh, for
example, on the town side are sent over
to me and there's a cover sheet and it
would say checks 100 to 200. And so I
would sign that sheet and the town
administrator would take a copy. I would
take a copy. We would keep it filed.
It's the check register. So it's 100 to
200. I sign 100 to 200. The town
administrator signs 100 to 200. The same
thing on the school side. They sign our
checks. They keep a copy of that check
register. And that's been the protocol.
So if I received, and this was, you
know, put into effect with with audits
years ago, Sally before me signed them.
So it would be an understanding then
that if the system of checks and
balances if I sign checks today and they
end in check number 200 that the next
set of checks that I would be attesting
to and signing my name on the bottom
would start with 2011
and vice versa. And so um it just has
not been that it's been every time and
it's not been because of the absence of
the town administrator or because of the
absence of the superintendent. Um, so
there were, you know, checks not in the
run that were supposed to be in the run.
Um, there was an extra one in there, uh,
that wasn't on that sheet in the front.
Um, and there were I I found out about
the fraudulent checks last month at your
board of selectman meeting. Um, that was
concerning for me, not because there
were fraudulent checks that does happen
to businesses, but because I found out
about it by looking in the packet and my
name was on that check. And so, um, I I
just think that if we aren't going to
follow a protocol with fidelity, then
then we we should change that protocol.
>> So, you're having your problem that
someone and I'll sit there and I'll go
myself
>> was requested to sign checks because
they needed a second signature
>> and because I looked at the information
and determined that you got to put
yourself on mute.
and that I looked at a a a check and a
vendor document and I determined that I
wouldn't sign that check till I got an
answer on that that that's not following
protocol and fidelity.
>> Fidelity.
>> No, that isn't I'm not referring to the
bathroom check, Jeff. I'm referring to
the fact that there were other checks
that were not in there and then there
were extra checks that were not on the
check register. I'm not referring to the
bathroom at all. This has nothing to do
with the bathroom. This has to do with
other checks not being in the check run.
And listen, I'm not I'm not here to tell
the board of selectmen what to do. That
that's your side. But I'm not
comfortable if I'm part of a protocol,
my name is on there and and the protocol
is established for a reason and the
protocol is going to change. I'm not
comfortable at the end of the year
having the auditor assume that we've
done it with fidelity when in fact we
have not. So, the board of education
does already have a policy from back in
2009 where our signer was the board
chair and myself and that was changed
when the town administrator was put into
effect. And so, um I I I just this is
nothing to do with that one check that
you're referring to. It has to do with
the other times that protocol is
constantly broken. Well, I'm not
comfortable with anyone other than the
town administrator and the
superintendent signing on a regular
basis.
>> Ask then in the last couple of months
why checks have been pulled from the
roster from the run
and
I have not received every check to sign.
>> Uh I don't know any other check.
got to put yourself in.
>> I don't know of any other check other
than the one check I pulled.
And if that's the case, I'm going to
have to get with the treasurer and the
finance department to understand what
checks have been pulled at what time.
And if it were pulled, they should have
let you know and they should have
crossed them off the
>> list with you and and um met with you
and Jim in Jim's office. Um and I had
asked about that check. I knew the check
from that one run was pulled um and and
I was told it was pulled aside and it
was TK elevator check. So again TK
elevator and again you know um you you
did let me know that until you had a
handle on what your accounts were over
there with 2% non-lapsing. I did just
get that check on Thursday as well. Um
it's just I I don't understand why
protocol is is an issue. Um that is a
problem for me. If the protocol is it's
all the checks, then it should be all
the checks from the general fund. So,
I'm that's why I'm asking for this to be
considered because we we do have a
policy already on our side that it's the
chair and the superintendent, but I do
know that per the auditor, it was
suggested in 2017 18 when the town
administrator position was created that
it would changed. And
all I'm saying, Jeeoff, is it makes me
uncomfortable. Why why wasn't I I
notified of the um of the uh fraudulent
checks? Cuz if the situation was
reverse, I absolutely would have sent
that over for somebody to be notified
with their name signature on there. I
did ask for a copy um of those checks.
So,
so yeah, the board can decide, the board
of selectment can decide what they would
like to do, but you know, I I protocol
has not been followed with fidelity. Uh,
I'm not going to sit there and tell you
that I think it's in the best interest
of the town to change what the auditor
suggested.
>> Anybody want to make a motion? Move in a
different direction.
>> I want it noted then. That's I
>> It'll be in the minutes.
>> Okay. We all good. Anybody on the board
want to do anything?
Okay, we're going to move on to 9F. Um
discussion and action on the joint board
of finance board of selectment meeting
that is scheduled for um Wednesday, this
upcoming Wednesday, which is the 10th.
Um,
I'm going to recommend that we uh speak
to uh I will speak to the Robert England
and sit there and get that meeting moved
because I think it's important that uh
the members of the board of finance and
the members of the board of selectmen
who attend the board of education
meeting uh have the opportunity to go to
that meeting and that is something that
we have to do a better job. I have to do
a better job of making sure meetings do
not overlap because it's not
appropriate.
And I know we have a whole email chain
that we're all on that members of the
board of finance are asking that that
meeting be moved. So, um
>> time to change it at this point.
>> Uh we're going to have to make it a
special meeting. It's going to have to
be moved to a different day. Um it could
be moved to Thursday now. We would have
time if we sat there and posted the
agenda for Thursday. Uh and and Carol,
let me know if that's correct.
Two days, right?
>> Or what? To send a mailer out. Is that
what you're ask?
>> No, no, no, no, no, no. This is just
this is just a a joint meeting of the
board of finance and the board of
selectment. It's not a town meeting.
It's it's just to sit there and review
initial review of the budget. Um,
>> it's just 24 hours, the same as
>> Yes.
>> Okay. So, it's already posted on the on
the town clerk's board right now. It's
something that um um we're going to have
to get with um Robert England and just
make sure that, you know, the day
whatever day would be good for him. And,
you know, we we just need to reschedule.
We could either reschedule for Thursday
or we could reschedule for another day.
Yeah. Jeeoff. Jeff, there it looks like
there I was just looking at the the
calendar and it looks like there's a
meet there's a joint meeting on the 11th
that we we're talking about and then
there's another one on the 18th.
>> Correct. There's a there's a requirement
within the charter change that was done
that two meetings be held.
>> Okay.
I'm just trying to decide if we could
trying to see what else what other dates
we have.
Yeah, because the board of finance
regular meeting is on the 25th.
>> Yep.
>> So, um,
not a lot going on the 12th.
I just don't know if everybody can make
it. That's all.
>> Well, that's the whole thing. And I
>> That's a lot of short It's a short not a
short notice.
>> Yeah, it's not it's not the best. That
definitely not the best. It's something
that we need to look at.
So, but I don't think that we should um
>> Yeah, next Tuesday's P&Z.
Yeah.
>> So that's
>> Well, listen. Let me let me sit there
and get with uh Robert England and and
find out if we can sit there and and if
he what day he would
um
Okay. So anyway, I I'm just going to
make a recommend. I'm going to make a
motion that we cancel uh we reschedule
the meeting the joint board of finance
board of selectment meeting for um
scheduled for
Wednesday February 11th.
>> I'll second that.
Okay. Any further discussions on that
issue?
All right. Um, Ann, how do you vote?
>> Yes. Yes.
>> Was that yes or no?
>> Okay. Caroli
>> says cancelling her.
>> Yeah. Reese.
>> Hi. Jeff Murray.
>> Hi.
>> Scott Person.
Scott's an I. Jeff Magcguire. I five.
Nothing. And I will reach out to um um
Robert England. Jeeoff as a suggestion.
We have to do two meetings now. Could we
do that on the board of finance regular
meeting night? Could we do a special
meeting like an hour ahead of that their
regular meeting or make it part of their
make it part of their regular meeting?
We just do our follow-up stuff from you
know if we just do next week and then we
meet with them at their regular meeting.
Would that suffice?
That would and and honestly, Jeeoff,
that's really probably a very good idea
because you can sit there and uh it will
give Lisa some additional time and us
some additional time to review it. So,
um
uh I'll make that recommendation.
>> Yeah, because then that way we don't we
don't have to reschedu anything. We
could just use the existing meetings and
just get the two get the two done in
that time frame.
>> Okay.
All right.
Yeah. The only people that will be, you
know, impacted would be us because
they're going to meet anyway. So,
okay.
Two before
When is their regular meeting?
>> Give me one second.
>> The 25th.
>> 25th. Yes.
And they just have a schedule from
7 to Yeah. 7 to 9.
Okay.
All right. So, that was the end of new
business. We're now moving on to um
approval of minutes. We have the minutes
in there for 12:22. We do not have
minutes for 112. Uh,
I I have to get on to that with Maria
and sit there and see where we're at.
And uh,
we're going to have to find some
alternatives, I would think, to sit
there and get our minutes done in a more
timely fair. I asked Jim. Jim had some
people that he had an opportunity to um,
he had some people that were that live
in town that actually did some work for
Windom for maintenance. So, I've asked
him to reach out to them to sit there
and see if maybe we need to make some
adjustments on who who is taking the
minutes. And that's if Marina really
wants to do do them since we did not
approve the employee versus
subcontractors issue in her favor.
So, we have the minutes there for 122.
Does anybody have any issues with those?
They start on
page
19 of the packet.
I'll make a motion that we approve the
minutes for 1222 2025.
>> Second.
>> Um, any further discussion? Ann, how do
you vote? Hi
>> Ann votes I Carol Lee
>> I
>> SC uh Jeff Murray
>> Scott Person
>> hi
>> I Jeff Magcguire I so five nothing on
the approval of the minutes and I will
sit there and find out where we're at
for um the 112 meeting. Um,
>> Jeeoff, I just want to get back to that
real quick. As I was looking at the
calendar, if you talk to Rob England, it
looks like March 11th
>> there's a board of finance budget
meeting and a board of education regular
meeting as well.
>> Okay. Um, he actually uh he actually got
to me. He said if we can get attendance
and still comply with a schedule and a
charter, he's open to it. So, let's sit
there and and initially push for that
and then if we have to do a special
meeting and and take it on a different
day, we will. But if we can get a if we
can do that, that's a great idea because
then the board of finance doesn't have
to schedule another meeting.
>> Yeah. I just wanted to say about that
conflict on the 11th. If there's board
of finance members that want to go to
the board education meeting, that's also
going to happen on the 11th of March.
>> Okay. I'll let him know that.
>> Uh well, actually his his people can um
Yeah. Um
Sorry.
Okay.
Uh, anybody I know that we talked to the
treasurer before, but does anybody have
any information or anything that they
want to address that I can bring to her
related to the treasur's report that
goes from 22 to to 40?
No.
>> Okay. Um, a tax collector uh report uh
item 12. It goes from page 42. Um,
anybody have any questions related to
the tax collectors report?
So, we received in the month of January
$1.6 million in taxes collected. We have
from pages
44 through uh 61 the large the largest
taxpayers who own money. Um
same ones. Nothing's changed there.
>> Yeah.
Nothing's changed.
Okay. Um, departmental reports. Uh, I
know because Kate was leaving, I'm sure
she did not get a lot of these
accumulated. She did get one for the
fire department. she did get the
information for
um the permits and and really we've got
to get a better better handle on these
permits and the dollar fees because
there's no costs on a lot of these
things. Um
>> I called the town of Bolton, the uh
building department up there, the
building inspector, and talked to him
about two of them that I had questions
about. And he said he'll look into them.
He said when he looked at him uh
initially that he did think that there
was something up with it. He was going
to investigate those two.
>> Okay.
>> And he never got back to me yet.
The ones this month seem right, seem
fine.
Okay.
And then we had um
Department of Public Works, Eric gave us
his report.
Um
you know, like I said, there's just way
too many of these events happening on
the weekends. It's killing us from an
overtime perspective. Um
just a lot of snow for but the the group
seems to have done a good job. I see the
smaller truck out there um
only over overtime by like $3800 I
think. Right. Good.
Which is a lot, I guess, but not for all
that work that they did.
>> Yeah.
Yeah. But
I mean, has anyone had any complaints
other than mailboxes?
If they only got 12, this is something I
could tell you from his historically.
They only got 12. They did really good
cuz I can remember plowing in the
blizzard that there was like 20 or 25
just at the lake that got hit.
>> And what happens is a lot of the posts
are rotten and they just get knocked
down anyway.
>> Some of them are just they're on their
way out and the snow does them in.
And we have a policy. We have a mailbox
policy. We do,
>> right?
>> We wrote it after the last that last big
storm we had.
>> About 10 years ago, eight years ago.
>> Well, during our time. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Some some sometime in there. We we
did it.
>> Jeff Jeff Magguire, do you remember the
town a road cash report? used we used to
get that every month,
didn't we? A detailed document I think I
remember about all the money that was
spent out of that account.
>> Yeah, we did. We got
we have uh we had received more
information uh Scott and
I'm going to sit there and try to make
sure
that the information I'm going to work
with the treasurer to make sure that the
information that is made available to us
is more consistent and more thorough.
>> It was scribbled on something, but I I
can remember we got a document every
every month about that.
Um, there were a lot of things that we
we got different information on. We need
to get back to
>> we don't we don't have enough
information.
>> I mean, listen, we at least know what's
moving out of the account. Like, if you
sit there and you go to pages
37 through 40, that's actually a summary
of the transactions and you can ask what
they are and and what what they're for.
I mean, Cassella Waste, we know that's
transfer station. you know, you have you
have all of these transactions that are
in here that what I would like to get to
is that the treasurer is online and has
access into the information and if you
have a question, she answers your
question immediately with the access to
it. Um, so
but a lot of these because of just
historical information, we kind of know
what they are. Um,
there's nothing like there's nothing
that really jumps out at me in this
cycle
>> that
is off.
>> Maybe if we can get the information a
little bit earlier too, rather than
>> Thursday, last hour of the day, and then
if we have questions, if we don't have
time on Monday to go in.
>> No. And that's the whole point, Carol,
is if what I'm I want to get to and what
I've asked is that the information that
is prepared for the board of finance
meeting, which would have been prepared
for by um the 25th
would sit there and then be presented to
us the following week, you know, so that
we would have that information. Um
we're going to get there. I I mean
there's there's just some changes that
have been made to
staffing and people that are more
willing to sit there and provide what
you need. But to be really honest,
Carol, the biggest thing within this
town is lack of information on all
fronts.
>> Yes, I agree.
>> All fronts.
So, um but
yeah.
Okay.
Um
the last section in this is um
the library has provided us an
information for January as to the
the transactions and and what they have
accomplished at the library. So the
librarian's report for January is
included on page 84. So anybody have
anything related to that?
Okay. All right, we're going to move on
to item 14, correspondence. There's
none. And we're going to move on to item
15, public speak.
So, we're going to go through our
residents before we move to um
before we move to
so we'll move on to people. So, Tess
Grouse I'm all set, sir.
>> Okay, Diane Grineer.
>> I'm all set. Thank you very much.
>> Um, Kimberly Prasad.
>> All set. Thank you.
>> Uh, Liz Latch.
>> I'm all set. Thanks for um dealing with
that issue. Appreciate you all.
>> Yep. Joan Joan Heert.
>> I'm all set. Thank you.
>> Stephen King,
>> just want to say that the the town crew
I believe did a great job cleaning up.
And that's about it. Thank you.
>> Okay. Lean Hutchinson.
>> I'm also all set.
>> All right. Louise Goodwin.
>> Yes. Um, I got a question about the
Andover's finest program.
I haven't heard too much about that and
I was just wondering if I I read on it
and I think there's supposed to be a
quarterly meeting from the board of
selectmen and has there been any
activity on that since last year?
>> We didn't have anyone that put in names
for us to review in January. But last
year though, I I actually did one last
year, last quarter, and I I checked the
uh meeting minutes and I didn't see any
activity on it.
>> Right. We were supposed to get new
submissions, so they're going to be
confidential.
>> Uh Louise, uh resubmit that, you know,
to the town administrator's assistant
and we'll sit there and look at it.
>> Okay. Thank you. Yep. Marcy Miner.
No, thank you.
>> Okay. And then I believe that phone
number is Luis is Leanne Hutchinson's.
So, did I miss uh anyone test? Sorry.
Did you say no?
>> That No, thank you, sir.
>> No, thank you, sir.
>> Okay, good. All right. So, uh did I miss
anyone?
Okay. Um,
thank you for everybody for attending.
I'm going to sit there and put you in
the waiting room so that we can move
into uh executive session. So, I'm going
to make a motion that we move into
executive session um to discuss
the town administrator interview
process.
Somebody may second it. An seconded
that. All right. Uh, all in favor can I
say five nothing? Yeah. 5-0. Great. All
right, everybody. Thank you. if you can
drop off or I'll put you in the waiting
room.
>> Are we in executive session?
>> Um, yes. I need to Not yet. I'm trying
to
>> move everybody around. So, let me um
>> let me stop that. I'm gonna
I'm gonna start the recording. So, uh
we've exited executive session at uh
9:08
on Monday, February 9th. Um and our
final item on the agenda is adjournment.
>> Motion to adjurnn.
>> Who's seconding that?
>> Scott Person seconded. So, Jeff Murray
made the motion. Scott Person seconded.
Um, all in favor I
>> I
>> 5 nothing. Thank you very much.
Appreciate it.
>> Okay. Good night.
>> See you guys. Yep.
>> Good night.